README.md, before:

# Wncms Translatable

A Laravel package to add translation capabilities to any Eloquent model by storing translations in a separate table with a polymorphic relationship. Easily manage translations for specified fields in multiple locales.

## Features
- Translates specified model fields
- Stores translations in a separate `translations` table
- Polymorphic relationship to support multiple models
- Easy to use with a simple trait

## Installation

### Step 1. Install the package via Composer:

```bash
composer require secretwebmaster/wncms-translatable
```

### Step 2. Publish the migration file:
```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=translatable-migrations
```

### Step 3. Run the migration to create the `translations` table:
```bash
php artisan migrate
```

### Step 4. Setup your model
Add the `HasTranslations` trait to your model
To make any model translatable, simply add the `HasTranslations` trait to your Eloquent model and define the `$translatable` property with the list of fields that should be translatable.
```php
<?php

namespace App\Models;

use Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model;
use Wncms\Translatable\Traits\HasTranslations;

class Post extends Model
{
    use HasTranslations;

    // Define the fields that can be translated
    public $translatable = ['title', 'description'];

    protected $fillable = ['title', 'description'];
}

```

## Usage

### Setting Translations
Create your model and call `setTranslation()`
```php
$post = Post::find(1);

// Set translations for 'title' and 'description'
$post = Post::create([
    'title' => 'Hello World',
    'description' => 'Description in English',
]);

$post->setTranslation('title', 'fr', 'Bonjour le monde');
$post->setTranslation('description', 'fr', 'Description en Français');
```

### Getting Translations
When retrieving translatable fields, the package automatically returns the value based on the current locale of the application:
```php
// Get the 'title' based on the app's current locale
echo $post->title; // Outputs 'Hello World' or 'Bonjour le monde' depending on the locale
```

You can also retrieve translations for a specific locale:
```php
// Get the 'title' in French
echo $post->getTranslation('title', 'fr'); // Outputs 'Bonjour le monde'

// Get the 'description' in English
echo $post->getTranslation('description', 'en'); // Outputs 'Description in English'
```

### Table Structure
The package will create a `translations` table with the following structure:

| Field             | Type         | Description                                  |
|-------------------|--------------|----------------------------------------------|
| `id`              | bigint       | Primary key                                  |
| `translatable_type`| string       | Model class name (e.g., `App\Models\Post`)    |
| `translatable_id`  | bigint       | The ID of the related model instance         |
| `field`           | string       | The name of the field being translated       |
| `locale`          | string       | Locale for the translation (e.g., `en`, `fr`)|
| `value`           | text         | The translated value                         |
| `created_at`      | timestamp    | Timestamp for when the translation was created|
| `updated_at`      | timestamp    | Timestamp for when the translation was updated|

Commit message:

Replace getOriginal() to getAttribute() to fix error that fields cannot be modified

README.md, after:

# Wncms Translatable

A Laravel package to add translation capabilities to any Eloquent model by storing translations in a separate table with a polymorphic relationship. Easily manage translations for specified fields in multiple locales.

## Features
- Translates specified model fields
- Stores translations in a separate `translations` table
- Polymorphic relationship to support multiple models
- Easy to use with a simple trait

## Installation

### Step 1. Install the package via Composer:

```bash
composer require secretwebmaster/wncms-translatable
```

### Step 2. Publish the migration file:
```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=translatable-migrations
```

### Step 3. Run the migration to create the `translations` table:
```bash
php artisan migrate
```

### Step 4. Setup your model
Add the `HasTranslations` trait to your model
To make any model translatable, simply add the `HasTranslations` trait to your Eloquent model and define the `$translatable` property with the list of fields that should be translatable.
```php
<?php

namespace App\Models;

use Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model;
use Wncms\Translatable\Traits\HasTranslations;

class Post extends Model
{
    use HasTranslations;

    // Define the fields that can be translated
    public $translatable = ['title', 'description'];

    protected $fillable = ['title', 'description'];
}

```

## Usage

### Setting Translations
Create your model and call `setTranslation()`
```php
$post = Post::find(1);

// Set translations for 'title' and 'description'
$post = Post::create([
    'title' => 'Hello World',
    'description' => 'Description in English',
]);

$post->setTranslation('title', 'fr', 'Bonjour le monde');
$post->setTranslation('description', 'fr', 'Description en Français');
```

### Getting Translations
When retrieving translatable fields, the package automatically returns the value based on the current locale of the application:
```php
// Get the 'title' based on the app's current locale
echo $post->title; // Outputs 'Hello World' or 'Bonjour le monde' depending on the locale
```

You can also retrieve translations for a specific locale:
```php
// Get the 'title' in French
echo $post->getTranslation('title', 'fr'); // Outputs 'Bonjour le monde'

// Get the 'description' in English
echo $post->getTranslation('description', 'en'); // Outputs 'Description in English'
```

You can get available translation field of a model:
```php
$post->getTranslatable() // Outputs an array of translatable fields
```

### Table Structure
The package will create a `translations` table with the following structure:

| Field             | Type         | Description                                  |
|-------------------|--------------|----------------------------------------------|
| `id`              | bigint       | Primary key                                  |
| `translatable_type`| string       | Model class name (e.g., `App\Models\Post`)    |
| `translatable_id`  | bigint       | The ID of the related model instance         |
| `field`           | string       | The name of the field being translated       |
| `locale`          | string       | Locale for the translation (e.g., `en`, `fr`)|
| `value`           | text         | The translated value                         |
| `created_at`      | timestamp    | Timestamp for when the translation was created|
| `updated_at`      | timestamp    | Timestamp for when the translation was updated|
